Predicting borrowers' likelihood to default on a loan
==================================================

While the 2008 subprime mortgage crisis has resulted in negative implications, it has also generated growth opportunities for new players in the retail credit field. After the brief credit scarcity, a new internet company has thrived, such as Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Lending. 

Fintech P2P lenders have introduced many opportunities, such as improved speed, better customer experience, and reduced costs. However, P2P lending platforms results in higher risks, among which higher credit risk: not owned by the lenders, and systemic risks: due to the high interconnectedness among borrowers generated by the platform. This calls for new and more accurate credit risk models to protect consumers and preserve financial stability. 

To address this issue, I will develop a predictive model to identify bad loans by using behavioural features and information available on loan applications (from https://www.kaggle.com/wendykan/lending-club-loan-data). To demystify the notion of a 'Black Box' model, I will use Explainable AI tools such as LIME and Shaply to provide interpretation behind the predictions, to provide transparency as to why a loan is predicted to be fully paid vs. defaulted. 

Lastly, I will be developing a real-time, interactive dashboard using Tableau so that these actionable insights is accessible to internal stakeholders such as the credit team, so that they can make more objective and data-driven assessment of loan applications depending on their business objectives, such as determining the appropriate interest rate in order to minimize risk vs. to maximise profits. 

[This is an interim update of my project. Do check back next week for a MVP :) Feel free to connect with me (https://www.linkedin.com/in/valerie-lim-yan-hui/) to find out more. I'd love to hear your suggestions or inputs too. Cheers!]
